Objects: an object in a program is much like an object in real life, but you can't touch it :). However much like an object in the real world, this virtual object has properties and values of his own, and can even perform functions. A good example is: a table, it has 4 legs, is made of wood, it can go inside or outside a house, it costs $200.00 at the store, and you can cut things on it.

Properties: are like a list of descriptions for an object. For example name: Table, material: Wood and Formica, size: Large, weight: 20Lbs, cost:$200; those are all properties of an object called table, and they all describe the table properly. In programming properties can be used to access information about the object, and also to store information inside the object.

Methods: In the example above we see how properties describe an object, but none of those properties tell us what the object is used for. And while some object can be used for nothing at all, in the programming world when an object has a function, this function is referred to as a method. For example the method called "use" can describe what the table is used for, and it would tell us something like this use: function; for eating and cutting things on.

for in loop: this loops are useful in programming, because it allows us to instruct the program to do something as many times as there are items inside an object. A good example of this would be if I would give you a deck of cards, and tell you to take each one out, and order them by color and number, I did not have to tell you every time you picked one up what to do with it, I just gave you instructions to do something with every single one of them. This is useful in programming when we have a large number of items that we want to do something to.

Dot notation vs bracket notation: this are both ways to refer to properties and methods inside an object. For example they are two ways to contact someone without going to their house, one of them does it directly: like sending that person a letter or an email, the problem is that you must know their full name and email or they would never receive it. The other way to contact them is: calling them on the phone, the phone is much like the address, but once someone answers you can decide who it is you want to speak to, this way it gives you an option to speak to anyone inside the house, or everyone inside the house. So dot notation is like the letter and email method, while bracket notation is more flexible allowing you to choose what property to refer to, this can be useful when you want to do things to every single property inside the same code using for loops, and can save time by reducing the amount of instructions given for repetitive tasks.
